gpu-assisted-layout took 2745 ms to layout 3elt.gml
force-directed took 28667 ms to layout 3elt.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 11707 ms to layout 4elt.gml
force-directed took 254579 ms to layout 4elt.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 2568 ms to layout add20.gml
force-directed took 10192 ms to layout add20.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 2704 ms to layout add32.gml
force-directed took 31792 ms to layout add32.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 730510 ms to layout auto.gml
force-directed took 2343976 ms to layout auto.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 38545 ms to layout bcsstk29.gml
force-directed took 207591 ms to layout bcsstk29.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 168388 ms to layout bcsstk31.gml
force-directed took 1369239 ms to layout bcsstk31.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 26106 ms to layout bcsstk33.gml
force-directed took 97597 ms to layout bcsstk33.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 254178 ms to layout brack2.gml
force-directed took 4452971 ms to layout brack2.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 6788 ms to layout crack.gml
force-directed took 122652 ms to layout crack.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 14608 ms to layout cs4.gml
force-directed took 630510 ms to layout cs4.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 12676 ms to layout cti.gml
force-directed took 378933 ms to layout cti.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 2442 ms to layout data.gml
force-directed took 12004 ms to layout data.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 5242 ms to layout fe_4elt2.gml
force-directed took 130934 ms to layout fe_4elt2.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 32004 ms to layout fe_body.gml
force-directed took 1125866 ms to layout fe_body.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 526034 ms to layout fe_ocean.gml
force-directed took 2254591 ms to layout fe_ocean.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 44937 ms to layout fe_pwt.gml
force-directed took 1428799 ms to layout fe_pwt.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 8108 ms to layout fe_sphere.gml
force-directed took 283519 ms to layout fe_sphere.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 29965 ms to layout fe_tooth.gml
force-directed took 59198 ms to layout fe_tooth.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 19314 ms to layout memplus.gml
force-directed took 329716 ms to layout memplus.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 74534 ms to layout t60k.gml
force-directed took 3884153 ms to layout t60k.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 2158 ms to layout uk.gml
force-directed took 28667 ms to layout uk.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 21686 ms to layout vibrobox.gml
force-directed took 179977 ms to layout vibrobox.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 7616 ms to layout whitaker3.gml
force-directed took 101627 ms to layout whitaker3.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 93799 ms to layout wing.gml
force-directed took 4222671 ms to layout wing.gml
gpu-assisted-layout took 9163 ms to layout wing_nodal.gml
force-directed took 128384 ms to layout wing_nodal.gml
