Cytoscape meeting minutes for March18, 2004

Present:
   ISB: Benno, Rowan, Larissa, Andrew, Phil
   SD: Trey, Chris, Ryan
   MSKCC: Gary, Ethan

Major topics:

1) Hiding/unhiding nodes/edges
2) bug status
3) vizmapper
4) new meeting time


1) Hiding/unhiding nodes/edges

We have three levels of "state" of a node/edge.
   a) It's either in the RootGraph or not.
   b) If in the RootGraph, it's either in the GraphPerspective or not.
   c) If in the GraphPerspective, it's either in the GraphView or not.

The current terminology for the related operations are
RootGraph: create/remove
GraphPerpsective: hide/restore
GraphView: add/hide/show

Issues:
   Should the GraphPerspective and GraphView be always synchronized?
   What UI should be presented for these operations?


We agreed that whatever we do, we should make sure that the UI is
clear. We also agreed to survey existing programs to see how they
handle this issue.

Several ideas were discussed. Karel has an object maanger tool for
keeping track of existing objects. Benno has an idea where a slide
could be used to control how visible a hidden node or edge is in
the view - fully visible at far right and fully removed at far left.
Trey put forth the use case of a layout algorithm that should
ignore currently hidden nodes/edges. Eventually we'll want a tool
for creating/deleting nodes and edges from the RootGraph, but we've
decided not to pursue this for 2.0.

I think we decided to pursue providing a single hide/unhide pair
of operations that work on both the GraphPerspective and GraphView
and keep them synchronized.

Ryan has some code that can quickly be customized to do what we want,
and Iliana's existing code also is applicable here.

On a related note, we discussed the menu options and decided to get
rid of "Unhide selection" as being confusing. The operation "undo
last hide" was deferred for a future undo manager.


2) Bug status

We're making excellent progress on fixing bugs. We have about 20-30
left, including about 12 unassigned bugs. Andrew/Phil will work on
assigning the remaining bugs. We agreed to spend another week on
fixing bugs and then prepare a new release candidate for intense
testing to close fixed bugs and identify any newly created ones.


3) Ethan is working industriously on the vizmapper, particularly the
Continuous and Discrete mapping classes. Eventually an "Apply to Graph"
operation will be provided for the full vizmapper.


4) When Benno moves to Paris, we'll need to move the meeting time
to fit everyone's schedule. The times 9am PT/12pm ET/6pm Paris
and 10am PT/1pm ET/7pm Paris were considered. We agreed to set
the April 8th meeting at 10am PT and consider changing it later
as the activity from Paris becomes more clear.

