meeting minutes, 27 march 2003
Scribe: Paul

present:  gary, ethan, owen, jonathan, trey, iliana, larissa, andrew, paul

1) Gary, Trey & Benno are working on a grant proposal, which might yield $500k
   for 3-5 years.
   Three areas of work will be proposed:  database, core, plugins

2) UI for visual styles:  Jonathan and Andrew have been working on this; it's
   ready to be used.  A style is a named collection of visual attributes and
   appearance calculators.  Jonathan has added a style chooser as a drop down
   menu on the main menubar.

2a) Everyone agrees we need better help & documentation, for developers and
    users.  Trey offers to put in some time on this in mid-April.  The help
    could be published in 3 ways:  available directly within the program
    (perhaps via Java Help); one a website, in a PDF document.  It would be
    nice if we could maintain the help 'source' in a single form, and create
    all 3 published formats automatically.  Do we use latex?  Word?  Something
    else?  Proposed:  that we experiment with one small sample of help
    information, and explore the least annoying way to 'maintain once,
    publish thrice'.

3) Owen will send Larissa an image that we can use as a splash screen.

4) Gary proposes that we have (something like) a new package for biological
   data classes.  Perhaps "org.cytoscape.lib".

5) Iliana needs graph hide events which issue events, so that her biomodules
   plugin can keep track of the current state of the graph.  On the other
   hand, Trey is concerned about the slowdown we will see if event-less hides
   are no longer possible.  Propsed:  that the Seattle group modifies the
   undoableGraphHider to use 'remove' rather than hide, and to see how much
   extra time a massive removal of nodes actually consumes.  Trey will send
   a suitably daunting case to experiment on.

6) CVS mailing list, to notify anyone interested of every cvs commit.  Gary and
   Owen will work on this

7) Paul reported his concerns about Rowan's use of CSBI classes underlying
   the new abstract Graph.  (It should be said, though, that Rowan is making
   a lot of effort to cooperate.)   Not mentioned during the meeting, but
   a good illustration of Paul's concerns, is that shadegrown.graph.Graph
   implements nine interfaces.


