meeting minutes, 01 may 2003

Transcribed by Gary Bader

Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, May 1, 2003

Attendance:
Andrew, Benno, Owen, Gary, Trey, Ethan, Paul, Larissa, Iliana, Rowan

Agenda
1. Brief grant update (Trey)
2. GUI tester for vizmapper (Paul)
3. Bug handling (Andrew)
4. Graph package working group update (Benno)
5. NCGR Santa Fe Plugin access (Paul)
6. Data service layer (Ethan and Gary)
7. Report on Andrey Finney and Mike Hucka meeting in Seattle (Paul)
8. Cytoscape Doppelganger -Iobion/Stratagene commercial package (Paul)


1. Benno, Trey and Gary have been planning the grant.  It's due June 1.  We
have a rough outline of the grant and ~ 10 pages of scattered text.
Priority 1, letters of support request to ~10 organizations to hit up for
support describing how it is useful or how they have plans to use Cytoscape.
This helps us create a strong basis for grant.  We need some forms to be
filled out.  We're all going to hit it hard next week.  Andrew expressed
interest in helping with the grant.  The grant writers would love help, so
Trey suggested if people are interested, they should contact Benno, Trey or
Gary to get the latest notes, read over them and then suggest if they want
to write up any part of the grant and/or make new suggestions.


2. GUI tester for VizMapper - suggestion from Paul.  Paul suggests writing
unit tests for vizmapper.  Paul has been using the vizmapper a lot and
thinks it's great, but has a few bugs - some are annoyances, but some are
larger.  Paul recommends writing unit tests while the code is being written,
which is easier to do now rather than later.  There is an SF tool called
Abbot (http://abbot.sourceforge.net/) that allows you to write JUnit tests
that test the behavior of the GUI - Paul assumes it sends events to widgets
and tests states of widgets afterwards.  Owen supports this idea fully.
Some discussion on long rendering time ensued - people agree that the
current bugs pointed out are a high priority to fix.  Bottom line from Paul:
create unit tests for code more.  Owen mentions we also should be working on
documentation for the API.  This then moved into a more general discussion
on unit tests with the following result:

Moving forward: unit tests are slightly higher priority than API
documentation and we need them written.
1. Make sure we are writing unit tests (Andrew suggests budget writing
unit test time at start of code writing, Ethan suggests that since we don't
have time to test everything, we should prioritize and one way to do this is
to do backend/infrastructure stuff first)
2. We should look into Abbot for GUI testing.
3. Look into non-developer testers if we can find some volunteers - A
quality assurance person.


3: Bug handling (Andrew): Bug reporting has grown to a point where they're
coming in too fast.  Need some software to help track, prioritize, decide
who owns the bug.  We can provide support via RT.  MSKCC people volunteer to
host the bug-tracking software on our machine.  They are using something
called RT (www.bestpractical.com)  Step one: speak to Andrew to see if he
likes the RT software and step 2: decide on the best way to migrate over to
this system if we decide it's good.


4. Graph package (Benno) - Iliana, Benno and Rowan have been working on
this.  A draft API is available that is interchangeable between yFiles and
an open-source layout library.  Have done speed tests.  One library
candidate is pretty good.  The list will be informed next week as to the API
that supports a couple of libraries.  Overall, nice progress has been made
e.g. hierarchical graphs, collapsing multimode graphs, etc.
Other news: responsibility for core refactoring has moved to Andrew.  Want
to do this in a smaller group.  Anyone interested is welcome to participate
in that group, then results are sent out for critique.  Andrew, Paul and
others would be working closely as part of the group.  Iliana wants to
volunteer for core coding.  Rowan has been doing some stress testing before
e.g. memory runs out with yFiles.  It turns out yFiles is not the most
efficient because each edge is its own object, so doesn't scale well when
there are lots of edges e.g. 1000 node fully connected graph.


5. NCGR Santa Fe Plugin access (Paul): What is our policy about giving out
our plugins?  NCGR is interested in expression data analysis.  Andrew
suggests that the author gets to pick if the plugin is public.  Benno
vouches for default policy that plugins are open-source.  Some grants
require open-source release of plugins.  General consensus is that we would
like to release plugins as open-source, at a minimum of publishing first,
though.
Owen notes that active paths plugin is being re-written as Java by some
students at MIT.
Owen is managing this project, but won't be able to complete it before he
leaves, but this will help the usefulness of this valuable plugin.
Iliana suggests that people comment their plugin in the header to say
whether it should be available for general release or when it is expected to
be published/released.  Paul suggests putting the GPL license in if that is
the proper license. Andrew requested people put the author in header.  Owen
requested that plugins should conform to the latest design principles, be
JARs, etc. (Owen).

CVS server:  Where should it be moved.  We need to ask Trey what his plan
is.  MSKCC volunteers a server if the need arises, but are a little low on
sys admin resources right now.


6. Data services layer update (Ethan and Gary) - We currently have a few
small data services that talk to GRID and SeqHound.  Caching features are
being developed.  Mantis tech docs site has been updated every ~2days or so.
The Javadoc for all code so far is up there.  Plan is to have this first
phase iteration done by next Friday at which point we will report.


7. Report on Andrey Finney and Mike Hucka meeting in Seattle (Paul).  They
were here last Friday and spent the whole day talking to all the ISB people.
They are not firmly wed to SBW (partly because not that many people have
used it), so started talking about Cytoscape and SBW cooperation some way in
some plugin code relationship.  One way to do this is to build up informal
personal communication relationship between SBW and Cytoscape - Paul will
coordinate on Cytoscape side.  One main point that came out is a scripting
resource that gives access to all the various tools that people want to use
e.g. Cytoscape, SBW, as well as other tools even in other languages.
Cytoscape could be opened up as a toolkit component (graph analysis and
visualization).
Trey wants to know the minimum change to Cytoscape that would be needed.
Rowan responded that it would be to replace the current plugin loader with a
more general one.  Gary asked how data would be passed - via standard API.
API would evolve over time.  Similar to API that BioSPICE has or
NetBeans/Eclipse loader.  Current plugin loader addresses some simple use
cases, so we should make sure all of our use cases are addressed if we
replace it.  Trey mentioned that keeping involved in the SBML, SBW team is
really great.  So we'd like to find out the minimum requirements for
Cytoscape change to be useful initially.  E.g. SBML writer for Cytoscape,
Hamid volunteered a person.

7b. Dataservices layer (Gary): Gary requests that he would like to have I/O
issues coordinated among the people that are dealing with I/O infrastructure
e.g. DataServices layer that Ethan is building.  Eventually the Data
Services layer should be the one stop shop for I/O issues and by
coordinating e.g. what libraries we use for XML parsing, etc., we will be
able to better re-use existing code and get it built faster.


8. Cytoscape Doppelganger -Iobion/Stratagene commercial package (Paul).  The
tool is nice and reminds is that we would like to get more analysis examples
out on webstart.  Would like to release plugins so people can better use
Cytoscape as their network analysis platform.

Rowan wants to be added to the cytostaff list. xmas@systemsbiology.org

