present: Benno, Rowan, Larissa, Gary, Ethan, Trey, Jonathon, Chris, Andrew.

1. Paper. The paper on Cytoscape has been accepted by Genome Research.
The revisions need to be made. Andrew and Benno will look through the 
editor's reviews and help Trey with the changes.
Aiming for the Systems Biology issue in October.

For the future updates and publications we should come up with the 
strategy where and how often to report our updates on the software 
development.

Options : NRA Database issue, Bioinformatics. They'll target different 
audience.


2. CVS server. Is it working now? Should work at the new address.

Gary suggests tagging  the release number to all files in CVS when we 
decide to make a release or every 4 month or so.
That will help to track the bugs if we need to look in to the old source 
etc.

Trey asks if Rowan going to Grad school, when and where. - Next fall 
(not coming fall), but Rowan has not decided where yet.


3. Graph update.  The new Graph model part is done and Rowan is running 
tests against it.
The view part still in development, Rowan is reworking the code to be 
able to layout and make visual changes to a non viewable graph.
The new  graph model is using indices instead of the Nodes and Edges 
objects to make things faster.
Larissa is going to try a new graph library (replace y-files) with the 
crippled version of Cytoscape.
That would facilitate our conversion of the refactored code with the new 
graph library and will help in testing and refining the graph library 
itself...

Rowan will send us links and instructions where to look for his work.

4. Data Services are moving to the core. Should we keep the data 
services as a plugin, as part of the core or as a separate third thing?

The problem with keeping it as a plugin is that plugins can not talk to 
each other in Cytoscape right now.
But also we are not sure we agree on making it part of the core...
So we decided  for now to add to csplugins directory DataServices 
directory. The Data Services directory will have it's own lib directory 
where all the needed
jar files will be. Return to this question later? Ethan will send the 
document on how data services work, how to create data services plugin ( 
new data service) etc...

5. Andrew  made a lot of changes and wants to check them in to the CVS. 
Due to to the big changes the code may be unstable (things might get 
broken).
Should we do CVS tagging or branching? Voted for tagging. Anrew will do 
CVS  tag and check his refactoring version in today-tomorrow. He also 
will write javadoc before doing that.



